---
type: news
title: Congratulations Dr. Nuriye Özlem Özcan Şimşek!
description: Nuriye Özlem Özcan Şimşek has successfully defended his PhD thesis
featured: true
date: 2024-05-21
thumbnail: uploads/ozlem-simsek-doktora.png
---

## Genomic Data Analysis Using Machine Learning Methods For Disease and Disease-Gene Prediction

### Abstract

Genomic diseases arise due to certain mutations or combinations of mutations in
the DNA. This combination can be different for each patient and the effect of
each mutation is different for the disease. In this study, we are focussing on
the genomic causes of diseases. We defined two research problems. One is to
detect the disease from the genetic code, represented as list of mutations. The
second is to detect disease-gene associations.

In this thesis, we focussed on cancer and proposed three frameworks. In one
approach, the list of mutations was modelled as a document and the mutations
were modelled as words in the document. Based on this assumption, we proposed
representation models for these patient mutation documents and used them for
disease prediction. For another approach, we modelled a novel heterogeneous
graph environment in which patients and genes/proteins are the nodes and
mutations define the edges. Both approaches to the problem resulted in
significantly better classification performances with the selected algorithms,
demonstrating the success of our novel designs for the input mutations. The
parameters of the two classification frameworks were analysed and a list of the
most effective genes for disease prediction was generated for each of these
systems. These genes were found to be studied as causal or target genes in the
cancer literature. In addition, this list of effective genes was transferred to
the gene expression domain as a gene selection algorithm and was found to
increase the rate of true prediction of disease. The proposed systems were
tested on cancer data but can be easily adapted to other genomic diseases.
