---
title: Mission Statements
description: University, Faculty, and Department Mission Statements
metadata: none
weight: 1
---

## Boğaziçi University

Boğaziçi University’s vision is to be a leading institution of higher education,
one that shapes the future through being a pioneer in education, teaching, and
research. The primary tenets of our vision are to

- Enrich the education and teaching experiences with innovative and creative
  approaches;
- Strengthen the culture of science, research, creativity, and innovation to
  become one of the leading research universities in the world; and to
- Contribute to shaping a better future through our academic, scientific, and
  cultural activities.

Boğaziçi University’s mission is to educate individuals who embrace it’s
institutional values, who are able to think both creatively and critically, who
are independent and egalitarian, who appreciate ethical values, who respect
nature and are aware of environmental issues, who are rooted in the local and
open to the global, and who can, with their self-confidence and scholarly,
social and cultural foundations, successfully take on leadership positions
anywhere in the world.

Boğaziçi University’s mission also encompasses producing universal thought,
science, and technology in service of humanity, and playing a pioneering role in
encouraging the spread of science, culture, and the arts throughout society.

## Faculty of Engineering

The mission of the Faculty of Engineering is to educate individuals for careers
of leadership and innovation in industry, government and educational
institutions, to expand the engineering knowledge base through original
research, and to contribute through professional services towards a more
prosperous and sustainable society. The vision of the Faculty of Engineering is
to continue to employ the best faculty and to accept the best students and,
thus, to become one of the leading engineering schools in the world in the areas
of education, research and technology innovation. Our undergraduate programs are
built on a sound foundation of freshman year core courses in engineering
sciences including mathematics, physics, chemistry, economy, and computer
programming, followed by engineering core courses mandated by the departments
typically during sophomore and junior years, supplemented by
specialization-option and complementary courses taken by the students during
their junior and senior years. The undergraduate curricula of the engineering
departments therefore comprise core courses in engineering sciences,
departmental core courses, specialization-option courses, complementary courses,
as well as courses in humanities and social sciences.

## Computer Engineering Department

The mission of the Department of Computer Engineering is to graduate economically,
socially and ethically conscious engineers that are equipped with the necessary
analytical, mathematical, decision-making, computing, communication, teamwork
and leadership skills that they can use to creatively design, implement, manage,
maintain and improve a wide spectrum of computer hardware, software and
information systems in the modern society.
