---
type: news
title: Arzucan Özgür received the Excellence in Research Award
description: >
  The Boğaziçi University Outstanding Achievement Award in Research, given
  annually by the Boğaziçi University Foundation (BÜVAK), has found its owners.
featured: false
date: 2022-01-25
thumbnail: uploads/arzucan-ozgur-1.png
---

Boğaziçi University Foundation (BÜVAK) rewards scientists who make a difference
with their research activities and publications at Boğaziçi University every
year. This year, seven scientists in the senior and junior categories received
the BÜVAK Academy Excellence Award. The Academic Board, which takes part in the
determination of the scientists who receive the award, evaluates the national
and international publication performances of the academicians. In this context,
where different types of publications are published, their number, continuity
and the number of citations they receive according to leading indexes are
examined.

According to these evaluations, Professor of Computer Engineering Department.
Dr. Lale Akarun, Professor of Chemistry Department. Dr. Amitav Sanyal and Head
of Tourism Management Department Prof. Dr. Maria Dolores Alvarez was awarded in
the "senior" category.

In the "Young" category, Vice President of Mechanical Engineering Prof. Dr.
Çetin Yılmaz, Faculty Member of the Department of Economics, Prof. Dr. Mehmet
Yiğit Gürdal, Computer Engineering Department Lecturer Assoc. Dr. Arzucan Özgür
and Department of Western Languages ​​and Literatures Dr. Instructor Member
Emine Fişek won this year's award.

#### What are BÜVAK Outstanding Achievement Awards in Research?

BÜVAK, in order to support the high-quality research activities and the valuable
academic staff who carry out these studies at Boğaziçi University, awards a
small number of permanent faculty members who show outstanding success in
research in two separate categories, junior and senior. At the beginning of the
year in which the award is given, faculty members who have not completed the age
of 42 are considered young, and those who are older are considered seniors.
Prizes are distributed as evenly as possible between the fields of basic
sciences and engineering, and social and human sciences.
